1) List all the columns of the Salespeople table.

  Approach = In this Query we have to print all the names of the column.
             For this i used Information.schema to print all the names of the column.
             I can also used Desc salespeople or Show salespeople but that will also give data type, null, key along with name of the columns.

  Expected output =  All the names of columns of salespeople table.
  Tables Involved =  Salespeople
  
2) List all customers with a rating of 100. 
Approach = In this Query I used WHERE clause with SELECT command.
           In Where i gave Condition rating = 100 (means select all those rows which have rating is equal to 100).
Expected output = This query will give customer number , name , city , rating of those customer who have rating = 100.
Tables Involved =  customer

3) Find the largest order taken by each salesperson on each date.
Approach = We have to do is find salesperson who has multiple orders on a single day then we have to select the maximum order 
           for that day.
           First I Joined the Orders and salespeople table using INNER join.
           Then I use Group By with odate , snum so that orders having same snum and odate get grouped together and MAX(amt) to get maximum 
           of multiple amounts of same day by a salesperson.
Expected output = Show the  snum , sname , onum , odate , MAX(o.amt) of the salespeople.
Tables Involved =  Salespeople , Orders

4) Arrange the Order table by descending customer number.

Approach = To Arrange the table in descending order i used OrderBy Command with DESC by cnum to sort orders in descending order by cnum.
Expected output = Table which is sorted by customer number in descending order.
Tables involved- orders

5) Find which salespeople currently have orders in the order table.

Approach 1 : We can use subquery to solve this query.
             we will Select salespeople whose number is in ( orders table ) 
             Select * from salespeople where snum in (select snum from orders).
Approach 2 : We can join the salespeople and orders table using INNER JOIN where o.snum = s.snum
             and Group by the joined table by snum.

Expected output- names of salespeople who have orders in order table.
Tables involved- orders, salespeople.

6) List names of all customers matched with the salespeople serving them
Approach = we want all customers with salespeople names which are associated to them.
           So for this we have to join salespeople and customers table and find common data between them.
           I use INNER JOIN to join the table.
Expected output- names of salespeople and customers they are serving. 
Tables involved- customers, salespeople
              
7) Find the names and numbers of all salespeople who have more than one customer.

Approach = Used Subquery to solve this.
           first Select sname , snum from salespeople table and Put condition Select only those salespeople 
           whose number is in our Subquery.
           Now , in Subquery Select number of salepeople from customers table and grouped the rows of customers table by salespeople 
           number and put filter using ahving on the grouped row that count of salespeople should greater than 1.
           
Expected output- Number and name of the salespeople who have more than one customer.   

Tables involved- customers, salespeople

8) Count the orders of each of the salespeople and output the results in descending order. 
Approach = To Count the orders of all the salespeople we have to use aggregate function count.
           First we group by the orders table using snum , it will give snum and number of orders 
           of each salepeople , to sort it in ascending order use OrderBy snum Desc.
           To get the names of the salepeople , i joined orders and salespeople table.
Expected output  = number , names , count of orders of each salespeople. 
Tables involved- orders, salespeople.

9) List the customer table if and only if one or more of the customers in the Customer table are located in SanJose.  

Approach = first count the number of customer whose city is sanjose using count function. This will give a Number.
           Now Select customers if the count we got from the subquery greater than or equal to 1.
           
Expected output- It will display entire customers table because there are two people Liu and Cisneros living in SanJose

Tables involved- customers

10) Match salespeople to customers according to what city they live in.
Approach = Select sname , cname and city of the customer and salepeople.
           Joined Customers and Salepeople table On city of the salepeople and customers.
Expected output- names of salespeople and customers living in same city. 

Tables involved- customers, salespeople

11) Find all the customers in SanJose who have a rating above 200.

Approach = Select those customers who satisfy the conditions => ( city='SanJose' and rating>200) .

Expected output- names and numbers of customers living in SanJose with rating above 200. 

Tables involved- customers

12) List the names and commissions of all salespeople in London. 

Approach- Select name and commission of salespeople if city='London'.
Expected output- names and commissions of salespeople living in london. 

Tables involved- salespeople


13) List all the orders of Salesperson Motika from the orders table.

Approach 1 : select orders table columns if snum in orders table is equal to the snum return by subquery.
             Subquery = return the snum where sname = "Motika" .
Approach 2 : Join salespeoples and orders table on snum of salespeople and orders and put condition sname = "Motika".
Expected output- orders' number, amount, date of salesperson motika. 

Tables involved- orders, salespeople

14) Find all customers who booked orders on October 3. 

Approach- Solved Using subquery , Select customers from customers table if customer number is in
          the cnums return by subquery.
          Subquery = it will select the distinct cnums from orders on october 3.

Expected output- names and numbers of customers who booked orders on October 3. 

Tables involved- orders, customers

15) Give the sums of the amounts from the Orders table, grouped by date, eliminating all those dates where the SUM was not at least 2000 above the maximum Amount. 

Approach- From Orders table , First i group by rows using odate then apply sum function on amt.
          It will give total amount of each day.
          To eliminate date where sum not atleast greater than 2000 of maximum amount i used filter using having.
          Apply filter on grouped rows that(2000 + SELECT MAX(amt) From orders) ;
Expected output : amount sum per date of only those orders having their sum >  (2000+ maximum amount) from orders table. 
If there are no such sums of the day then we will get an empty set.
          

Expected output- amount sum per day and date of only those orders having their sum >  (2000+ maximum amount) from orders table. 
If there are no such sums of the day then we will get an empty set.

Tables involved- orders

16) Select all orders that had amounts that were greater than at least one of the orders from October 6. 

Approach = solved this using subquery Select those orders where the amt greater than the amount return by subquery.
           As mentioned in question select orders that greater than atleast one of the orders from october.
           So we can say that we select the orders that are greater than the minimum amt of october 6.
           then subquery would be = (SELECT MIN(amt) FROM orders WHERE odate="10/06/90").
Expected output- numbers and amount of all such orders whose amount is > (minimum orders from October 6) .

Tables involved- orders

17) Write a query that uses the EXISTS operator to extract all salespeople who have customers with a rating of 300.

Approach- Solved using subquery and use exists with where before the subquery and in subquery check whether for a given salesperson, customers with rating = 300 exists and use INNER JOIN 
          on snum to get saleperson's name from salespeople table.

Expected output- names and numbers of salespeople having customers' rating=300 .

Tables involved- customers, salespeople
          
18) Find all customers whose cnum is 1000 above the snum of Serre

Approach = Use subquery to find the number of serre and then select customers whose cnum is greater than the snum return by subquery.
Expected output- All customers with cnum >= (1000+ snum of Serres) .

Tables involved- customers, salespeople

19) Give the salespeople’s commissions as percentages instead of decimal numbers. 

Approach- Use Select command to show sname , snum and comm as Commission_Percent

Expected output- names, numbers and commission of all salespeople.

Tables involved- salespeople

20) Find the largest order taken by each salesperson on each date, eliminating those Maximum orders, which are less than 3000. 

Approach = Solved Using Correlated Subquery and Use Exists.
           First Joined table salespeople and orders and Put Condition after where as a Correlated query
           That subquery return ( amts from orders on s.snum = o.snum and also where amt > 3000 then we Grouped By date).

Expected output- Display snum , sname , maximum order of that day and date of Salespeople which having maximum order
                 for the day if it is >= 3000 
           
Tables involved- orders, salespeople

21) List all the largest orders for October 3, for each salesperson. 

Approach = Select the snum and max(amt) from orders and select only those rows where date is october 3
           then group by the obtained row by snum .
           We can also use Inner join to get the names of the salepeople.
           
Expected output- Display snum and maximum amount from orders if date is october 3. 

Tables involved- orders, salespeople
           
22) Find all customers located in cities where Serres has customers.

Approach = Select cnum , cname and city from customers table where the city is in the  return by the subquery.
           Subquery = Select the city from the customers table where snum equal to the snum returned by subquery.
           subquery = give the snum where sname = serres.
Expected output- names, numbers and cities of customers located in cities where Serres has customers. 

Tables involved- Customers , salespeople

23) Select all customers with a rating above 200.

approach = Use WHERE to put condition rating > 200.

Expected output- names and numbers of customers with rating>200.

Tables involved- customers

24) Count the number of salespeople currently having orders in the orders table.

Approach = Use Count on snum with distinct to count number of salespeople currently having orders in the orders table.

Expected output- number of salespeople currently having orders in the orders table. 

Tables involved- orders.

25) Write a query that produces all customers serviced by salespeople with a commission above 12%. Output the customer’s name, salesperson’s name and the salesperson’s rate of commission.

Approach = Joined Customers and salespeople using Inner Join on s.snum = c.snum and also pt condition that comm > 12 .

Expected output- names, numbers of customers and salesperson's commission above 12%. 

Tables involved- customers, salespeople

26) Find salespeople who have multiple customers.

approach = joined table salespeople and customers using INNER join on c.snum = s.snum.
           Now we have common rows of salespeople and customers now group by rows using snum and apply filter using having count > 1 .
Expected output- Show names and numbers of salespeople having multiple customers. 
 
Tables involved- customers, salespeople

27) Find salespeople with customers located in their own cities. 

Approach = Joined Table salespeople and customers using inner join on s.snum = c.snum and also s.city = c.city.

Expected output- names of salespeople and customers and the same city they live in. 

Tables involved- customers, salespeople

28) Find all salespeople whose name starts with ‘P’ and fourth character is ‘I’.

Approach = Use Like operator using regex that 'P__i%'.

Expected output- names of salespeople whose name starts with ‘P’ and fourth character is ‘I’. If no such salesperson found
return empty set.

Tables involved- salespeople

29) Write a query that uses a subquery to obtain all orders for the customer named ‘Cisneros’. Assume you do not know his customer number. 

Approach- Use Subquery on customers table to get cnum of ‘Cisneros’. And find all orders where cnum = cnum returned by subquery.

Expected output- snum , onum , odate , amt for the customer ‘Cisneros’.
 
Tables involved- orders, customers

30) Find the largest orders for Serres and Rifkin. 

Approach = Joined Salepeople and orders table using Inner Join.
           Group the Obtained common rows of Salepeople and orders table by onum and Also apply
           Having to filter the rows where sname = "Serres" or "Rifkin".
           Now Select the s.sname , MAX(o.amt) from the filtered rows.

Expected output-  names and maxixmum amount of orders of salespeople Serres and Rifkin.
 
Tables involved- orders, salespeople

31) Sort the salespeople table in the following order: snum, sname, commission, city. 

Approach = Sort the Salespeople using Order By first Snum , then sname , commission , city .

Expected output- names, numbers, commissions, cities of salespeople ordered this way - snum, sname, commission, city.
 
Tables involved- salespeople 

32) Select all customers whose names fall in between ‘A’ and ‘G’ alphabetical range. 

Approach = use Between command to find the names fall in between ‘A’ and ‘G’
          BETWEEN A% and G%.
 
Expected output- names of customers whose first letter of name starts with ‘A’-'G'.

Tables involved- customers

33) Select all the possible combinations of customers you can assign.

Approach- Joined customers table with itself using self join on c1.snum = c2.snum AND c1.cnum != c2.cnum

Expected output- two different customers' names.

Tables involved- customers

34) Select all orders that are greater than the average for October 4.

 select * from orders where amt > (select avg(amt) from orders group by odate having odate="10/04/90") order by amt ;
 
 Approach = Select those orders from the orders table where amt greater than the value got from subquery.
            Subquery = Group the rows of Orders table by odate then apply having which filter the rows having date oct 4. and then find average of the filtered rows.
            Select orders if amt > average of Filtered Rows.
            
 Expected output- numbers and amount of orders having amount greater than the average amount on October 4.

Tables involved- orders.

35) Write a select command using a correlated subquery that selects the names and numbers of all customers with ratings equal to the maximum for their city. 

SELECT * FROM customers c1 WHERE rating = (SELECT MAX(rating) FROM customers c2 WHERE c1.city = c2.city);
 
Approach = Wrote a Correlated subquery That give maximum rating  of the city where the given customer's lives and check 
           whether this rating is equal to the given customer's rating, if yes select that customer. 
 
 Expected Output: Display the customers names and numbers  with ratings equal to the maximum for their city. 
 
 Tables involved- customers

36) Write a query that totals the orders for each day and places the results in descending order. 

Approach = First group the rows of orders by odate and then find sum the of the grouped rows.
           Now Sort the obtained row in descending order using order by amt desc.
           
Expected output- sum of amount per day and date , sorted in descending order by sum. 

Tables involved- orders

37) Write a select command that produces the rating followed by each customer's name in SanJose. 
 
Approach- Select Rating and use WHERE with city = 'SanJose'

Expected output- rating and names of customers living in SanJose. 

Tables involved- customers

38) Find all orders with amounts smaller than any amount for a customer in SanJose. 
SELECT * FROM orders WHERE amt < ( SELECT MAX(amt) FROM orders WHERE cnum IN (SELECT cnum FROM customers WHERE city = "sanjose" ) ) ;

Approach = Find the cnum of the customer where city = Sanjose.
           Now find the maximum amount from orders where customer lives in sanjose with help of cnum we got from subquery.
           Select those orders which is smaller than max(amt) .
           
Expected output- numbers , amount , date of orders with their amount < any amount for a customer in SanJose. 

Tables involved- orders, customers


39) Find all orders with above-average amounts for their customers.

Approach = first we will find the average of amount of orders done by every customerst then print only those orders whose amount is Greater than above average amount.

Expected = Orders with above-average amounts for their customers.

Tables involved- orders

40) Write a query that selects the highest rating in each city.

Approach = Group rows of customers by city and find max among the groups.

Expected output- name of city and its highest rating in customers table.

Tables involved- customers

41) Write a query that calculates the amount of the salesperson’s commission on each order by a customer with a rating above 100.00. 

SELECT * , s.comm /100 * o.amt as Commision FROM salespeople s, orders o WHERE o.snum = s.snum AND o.cnum IN (SELECT cnum FROM customers WHERE rating > 100) ;
Approach = Join Salespeople and orders table on s.snum = o.snum and select cnums where rating > 100 .
           Now Calculate commission as s.comm/100 * o.amt.
           
Expected outcome- display salespeoples details , order number, commission of Salespeople and their names 

Tables involved- orders, customers, salespeople

42) Count the customers with ratings above SanJose’s average.

approach = Using Subquery get the average rating of customers where city = sanjose.
          Now count customers where rating greater than the average rating found using subquery.
          
Expected output- count of customers with ratings greater than SanJose’s average rating.

Tables involved- customers

43) Find all salespeople that are located in either Barcelona or London. 

Approach- Use WHERE on city = 'Barcelona' or 'London' or  City In ( 'Barcelona','London') .

Expected output- salespeople details with city = Barcelona or London.
 
Tables involved- salespeople

44) Find all salespeople with only one customer. 
select * from salespeople where snum in (select snum from customers group by snum having count(snum)<=1) ;

Approach = Solved using Subquery that give the snums of customers with only one customer. 
           Subquery = Group customers rows by snum and filter the rows having count(snum) = 1.
           Select salespeople where snum belong to the subquery.
 
Expected output- details of salespeople with number of customers=1.
 
Tables involved- customers, salespeople

45) Write a query that joins the Customer table to itself to find all pairs or customers served by a single salesperson.
Approach = Join customers table itself on c1.snum = c2.cnum and c1.cnum != c2.cnum ;

Expected output - Display all pairs or customers served by a single salesperson.

Tables involved- customers.

46) Write a query that will give you all orders for more than $1000.00. 

Approach- Use WHERE with amt>1000  

Expected output- All orders with amount > 1000.
 
Tables involved- orders

47) Write a query that lists each order number followed by the name of the customer who made that order. 

Approach - Join orders and customers table  on o.cnum = c.cnum ;

Expected output- order number and customer name.
 
Tables involved- orders, customers

48) Write a query that selects all the customers whose ratings are equal to or greater than ANY(in the SQL sense) of ‘Serres’. 

Approach = Find the snum of the salespeople whose sname = serres .
           Now find the rating of the customers who served by serres.
           Using Any Select those customer whose rating greater than or equal to the Any of the rating of the customers who served by serres. 

Expected outcome- CNUM CNAME CITY RATING SNUM whose ratings are equal to or greater than minimum ratings of Serres.

Tables involved- customers, salespeople

49) Write two queries that will produce all orders taken on October 3 or October 4.

Approach1 = select using Where date is october 3 or october 4.
Approach2 = Select using Where date in (oct 3 , oct 4 ).

Expected Output : All orders taken on Oct 3 or Oct 4.

Tables Involved - Orders

50) Find only those customers whose ratings are higher than every customer in Rome.

select * from customers where rating > (select max(rating) from customers where city="rome") ;
Approach = First find the maximum rating of the customer Where city = rome.
           Now select Customers Whose rating greater than rating got from subquery.
           
Expected output = Display customers whose ratings are higher than every customer in Rome.

Tables involved- customers.

51) Write a query on the Customers table whose output will exclude all customers with a rating&lt;= 100.00, unless they are located in Rome. 

select * from customers where city="rome" or  rating != 100 ;
Approach = Use Where clause and put condition that city is rome and rating != 100 ;

Expected Output = names, cities and ratings of customers either not having 100 rating or living in rome. 

Tables involved- customers

52) Find all rows from the customer’s table for which the salesperson number is 1001. 

Approach- Use SELECT with Where snum=1001.

Expected outcome- names, numbers of customers having salesperson number=1001. 

Tables involved- customers

53) Find the total amount in orders for each salesperson where their total of amounts are greater than the amount of the largest order in the table. 

SELECT Total,SNUM FROM (SELECT SUM(AMT) AS TOTAL,SNUM FROM orders GROUP BY SNUM) AS O WHERE Total > (SELECT MAX(AMT) FROM orders);
Approach- First use GROUP BY on snum with SUM on amt as Total to get sum of amount of all days for a salesperson. 
          Now Select snum and total amount if total amount > maximum amount in orders.
Expected outcome- Display total amount and salespeople numbers of salespeople having sum > largest amount order  

Tables involved- orders

54) Write a query that selects all orders except those with zero or null in the Amt field from table.
SELECT * FROM orders WHERE AMT = 0 OR NULL;

Approach = select orders where amt of order not in 0 or NULL.

Expected outcome- non zero and non null amount and numbers of orders.

Tables involved- orders

55) Produce all combinations of salespeople and customer names such that the former precedes the latter alphabetically, and the latter has a rating of less than 200

SELECT s.sname, c.cname, c.rating FROM customers c, salespeople s WHERE c.snum = s.snum AND s.sname < c.cname AND c.rating < 200;

Approach - join customers and salespeople on c.snum = s.snum and also apply condition s.sname < c.cname and c.rating < 200.
           salesperson's name must be alphabetically smaller than customer's name and customer's rating < 200
Expected outcome- names of salespeople and customers having salesperson's name alphabetically smaller 
than customer's name and customer's rating < 200

Tables involved- customers, salespeople

56) Find all salespeople name and commission.

Approach = Use SELECT command to select name and commission.

Expected outcome- names and commissions of salespeople.

Tables involved- salespeople 

57) Write a query that produces the names and cities of all customers with the same rating as Hoffman. 
Write the query using Hoffman’s cnum rather than his rating, so that it would still be usable if his rating is changed. 

Approach = Using Subquery to find the rating of customers where cnum = 2001 .
           Now select customers Whose rating equal to subquery Result.

Expected outcome- names and cities of all customers having rating = Hoffman's rating. 

Tables involved- customers

58) Find all salespeople for whom there are customers that follow them in alphabetical order. 

Approach = Join table salespeople and customers table on c.snum = s.snum and s.sname < c.cname ;

Expected outcome- names of salespeople alphabetically greater than their customers' names. 

Tables involved- customers, salespeople 

59) Write a query that produces the names and ratings of all customers who have average orders. 

Approach = join customers and orders table on s.snum and c.snum and also amt > the average amount of orders.

Expected outcome- names and ratings of all customers who have average orders. 

Tables involved- customers, orders

60) Find the SUM of all Amounts from the orders table.

Approach- Use SUM on amt to get total amount in the orders table

Expected outcome- total amount

Tables involved- orders

61) Write a SELECT command that produces the order number, amount, and the date from rows in the order table. 

Approach- Use SELECT with onum, amt, odate to get their values.

Expected outcome- order number, amount, and the date from order table. 

Tables involved- orders

62) Count the number of non NULL rating fields in the Customers table (including repeats). 

Approach- Use Select with count to count customers and put condition that rating != 0 or Null

Expected outcome- non NULL rating fields

Tables involved- customer

63) Write a query that gives the names of both the salesperson and the customer for each order after the order number. 

Approach- Joined customers and salespeople table on s.cnum = c.cnum and s.snum = c.snum.
          
Expected outcome- names of salespeople and customers, order numbers

Tables involved- orders, customers, salespeople

64) List the commissions of all salespeople servicing customers in London. 

Approach = First use subquery to get snums from customers table where city = London.
           and Now find commission of salespeople where snum = subquery snum .
           
Expected outcome- salespeople's names and commissions

Tables involved- orders, customers, salespeople

65) Write a query using ANY or ALL that will find all salespeople who have no customers located in their city. 

Approach- first Use subquery to select all cities of customers of a given salesperson and apply ALL or ANY on it with <> 
operator to check whether the salesperson's city is matched with any city of customers. If not matched select it else 
don't.

Expected outcome- salespeople's names and numbers

Tables involved- customers, salespeople

66) Write a query using the EXISTS operator that selects all salespeople with customers located in their cities who are not assigned to them. 
SELECT * FROM salespeople s WHERE EXISTS ( SELECT * FROM customers c WHERE c.city = s.city and s.snum != c.snum) ;

Approach = Use correlated Subquery that select customers on c.city = s.city and s.snum != c.snum 
           And now Select salespeople using Exists from the subquery. 
           
Expected output - names and numbers of salespeople 
  
Tables involved- customers and salespeople 

67) Write a query that selects all customers serviced by Peel or Motika. (Hint: The snum field relates the 2 tables to one another.) 
 Approach = Find the snums of peel and motika from salespeople using subquery.
            Now select customers where snum in subquery.
 Expected outcome- All customers and their serving salespeople's names 
  
Tables involved- customers and salespeople

68) Count the number of salespeople registering orders for each day. (If a salesperson has more than one order on a given day, he or she should be counted only once.) 
SELECT COUNT(DISTINCT snum) FROM orders GROUP BY odate ;

Approach- Select Count with distinct on Snum from the Group formed by odate.

Expected outcome- date and number of orders on that day
  
Tables involved- orders

69) Find all orders attributed to salespeople who live in London. 

Approach- Using Subquery find snum from salespeople who lives in london.
          Now select anum and amt if the snum belong to the subquery.

Expected outcome- orders' numbers and salespeople's names who have taken those orders.
  
Tables involved- salespeople, orders

70) Find all orders by customers not located in the same cities as their salespeople. 

Approach- Firrst use subquery  = join customer and salepeople table on c.city != s.city AND s.snum=c.snum and now subquery returns cnums
          Now select orders whose cnum belong to the resultant subquery cnums.

Expected outcome- orders's numbers and customers names and numbers made those orders respectively.
  
Tables involved- salespeople, orders, customers 

71) Find all salespeople who have customers with more than one current order. 

Approach- use GROUP BY on cnum and COUNT on onum in orders table. 
          Now Use Inner join with salespeople table to get salespeople's names.

Expected outcome- salespeople's names and numbers with count of orders.
  
Tables involved- salespeople, orders.

72) Write a query that extracts from the customer’s table every customer assigned to a salesperson, who is currently having at least one another customer(besides the customer being selected) with orders in the Orders Table. 

Approach = We have to select those customers along with orders from orders table Whose salespeople is having some other customer as well 
           Peel and Serres are having multiple customers.
           Use a subquery to find snums of all those salespeople having more than one customer in orders table. Then check which of these
           snums is present in customers table and select cnum, cname for that salesperson.
           
Expected outcome- names and numbers of customers with specified condition
 
Tables involved- customers, orders

73) Write a query on the customer’s table that will find the highest rating in each city. Put the output in this form: for the city (city), the highest rating is (rating). 
Approach : First Group the rows of customers table by city and find maximum rating of the group using MAX function.

Expected outcome- city and its highest rating. 
 
Tables involved- customers

74) Write a query that will produce the snum values of all salespeople with orders, having amt greater than 1000 in the Orders Table(without repeats). 
Approach = SELECT salespeople numbers with distinct and also put condition that Amt > 1000.

Expected outcome- numbers of salespeople's having amt greater than 1000.
 
Tables involved- orders

75) Write a query that lists customers in a descending order of rating. Output the rating field first, followed by the customer’s names and numbers. 
approach = Use OrderBy rating with DESC 

Expected outcome- ratings, customer’s names and numbers. 

Tables involved- customers 

76) Find the average commission for salespeople in London.

Approach = Use Average function on commission and put condition that salespeople city = London.

77) Find all orders credited to the same salesperson who services Hoffman.(cnum 2001). 

Approach = Use Subquery to find the snum corresponding to hoffman.
          Then find all the Orders where snum is in subquery.
Expected outcome- orders' numbers, date, amount and common salesperson's number.

Tables involved- customers, orders 

78) Find all salespeople whose commission is in between 0.10 and 0.12(both inclusive). 

Approach- use BETWEEN 10 and 20 for commission.

Expected outcome- salespeople's names and numbers.

Tables involved- salespeople 

79) Write a query that will give you the names and cities of all salespeople in London with a commission above 0.10.

Approach = Use Select and put condition using WHERE that city = "london" AND comm/100 > 0.10 

Expected outcome- names and cities of all salespeople in London with a commission above 0.10.

Tables involved- salespeople

80) Write a query that selects each customer’s smallest order.
Approach = first Group rows of orders table and find minimum amt from that groups using MIN function.
           Use INNER join to get the names of the customers.
Expected outcome- customer's names and numbers and their minimum order. 

Tables involved- customers, orders

81) Write a query that selects the first customer in alphabetical order whose name begins with ‘G’. 
SELECT * FROM customers WHERE cname LIKE 'G%' ORDER BY cname LIMIT 1 

Approach = Use Like operator to select all those customer whose name start with g
           LIKE G%.
           Now use order by cname with LIMIT 1 to get 1st Customer.
           
Expected outcome- customer's name which is first in alphabetical order with name begins with ‘G’. 

Tables involved- customers

82) Write a query that counts the number of different non NULL city values in the customers table. 
Approach = use IS NOT NULL to get all the cities which have non null values.

Expected outcome- count of distinct cities in customers table 

Tables involved- customers

83) Find the average amount from the Orders Table. 

Approach- use AVG on amt in orders table. 

Expected outcome- average amount of all orders

Tables involved- orders

84) Find all customers who are not located in SanJose and whose rating is above 200. 

Approach = Put conditions on customer table like city != "sanjose" AND rating>200

Expected outcome- numbers and names of customers with specified conditions 

Tables involved- customers

85) Give a simpler way to write this query.SELECT snum, sname, city, comm FROM salespeople WHERE (comm > + 0.12 OR comm &lt; 0.14); 
Approach = use * instead to write columns names.

Expected outcome- salespeople table

Tables involved- salespeople

86) Which salespersons attend to customers not in the city they have been assigned to? 

Approach = JOIN salespeople and customers table using INNER JOIN on c.snum = s.snum AND s.city != c.city.

Expected outcome- salespeople's names serving customers not present in their cities.

Tables involved- salespeople, customers 



87) Which salespeople get commission greater than 0.11 are serving customers rated less than 250?

Approach = JOIN salspeople and customers table using INNER join on c.snum = s.snum.
           Also put condition s.comm >11 AND c.rating < 250 .
Expected Output : Salespeople Details who get commission greater than 0.11 are serving customers rated less than 250.

Tables involved- salespeople, customers

88) Which salespeople have been assigned to the same city but get different commission percentages? 

SELECT s1.* FROM salespeople s1 WHERE s1.city IN (SELECT s2.city FROM salespeople s2 WHERE s2.snum != s1.snum AND s1.comm != s2.comm);

Approach = Use Correlated Query to solve this.
           In subquery Join salespeople itself and it will give the city of the salepeople and put condition where s2.snum != s1.snum AND s1.comm != s2.comm.
           
Expected outcome- salesperson 1's name and salesperson 2's name

Tables involved- salespeople

89) Which salesperson has earned the maximum commission?

Approach = Join Salepeople and orders table on s.snum = o.snum.
           Now Group these resulted rows by snum.
           Now Select name and calulate commission (SUM(o.amt)*s.comm/100)  from resultant rows .
           Now Sort the selected rows by commission.
Expected outcome- salesperson's name with maximum commission

Tables involved- salespeople, orders

90) Does the customer who has placed the maximum number of orders have the maximum rating? 
 Approach = First we find the Maximum number of Orders of each customers 
            Then Find the rating of the resultant Customers .
            And Observed that Three Customers have same no. of orders i.e 2
            and two of them have highest rating i.e 300.
 Expected outcome- Yes or No .
 +----------+--------+--------------+
| cname    | rating | No_of_orders |
+----------+--------+--------------+
| Grass    |    300 |            2 |
| Clemens  |    100 |            2 |
| Cisneros |    300 |            2 |
+----------+--------+--------------+

// Grass , clemens and cisneros has maximum order but only grass and cisneros got the highest rating.

Tables involved- customers, orders
 
91) List all customers in descending order of customer rating.

Approach = Use OrderBy on rating With DESC.

Expected outcome- customers' names and ratings in descending order

Tables involved- customers

92) On which days has Hoffman placed orders?

Approach = Use Subquery to find cnum of hoffman and from customers table find the date where cnum of hoffman.
 
xpected outcome- dates when Hoffman has placed orders

Tables involved- orders, customers

93) Which salesmen have no orders between 10/03/1990 and 10/05/1990?

Approach = USE between and Not operator .
           orders not BETWEEN 10/03/1990 and 10/05/1990 . 
           
Expected outcome- names of salespeople who have no orders between 10/03/1990 and 10/05/1990

Tables involved- orders, salespeople

94) How many salespersons have succeeded in getting orders?

Approach = Count Snum from orders table with distinct.

Expected outcome- number of salespeople who have taken orders

Tables involved- orders

95) How many customers have placed orders? 

Approach- Count cnum from orders table with distinct.

Expected outcome- number of customers who have placed orders

Tables involved- orders

96) On which date has each salesman booked an order of maximum value? 

Approach = JOIN salespeople and orders table on s.snum = o.snum .
           Now Group the resultant rows by snum.
           And now find the MAX(amt) from the grouped rows.

Expected outcome- salespeople's names, maximum order amount, maximum order date 

Tables involved- salespeople, orders

97) Who is the most successful salesperson? 

Approach = In my opinion , The salepeople who got maximum commission is the most successful saleperson.
           Peel got maximum commission .
           peel also got max number of orders.
           
Expected outcome- salesperson's name with maximum commission

Tables involved- salespeople, orders

98) Which customers have the same rating?

Approach = Join customers table itself using INNER join and put condition c1.rating = c2.rating AND c1.cnum!= c2.cnum.

Expected outcome- customer 1's name and customer 2's name with same rating.

Tables involved- customers

99) Find all orders greater than the average for October 4th.

Approach = Using Subquery we find average amt of oct 4. Now select those orders which is greater than average amt .

Expected output - orders numbers and their amount.

Tables involved- orders
           
100) List all customers with ratings above Grass’s rating. 

Approach = Find average rating of grass and selete all the customers whose rating > than average of grass.

Expected output - customers' names having ratings above Grass’s rating.

Tables involved- customers

101) Which customers have above average orders? 
Approach = First Find the average of amount in orders table using Subquery .
           Now select customers cnum whose amt > average.
           and Finally select Customers whose cnum in subquery .
           
Expected output - customers' names having above average orders.

Tables involved- customers, orders

102) Select the total amount in orders for each salesperson for which the total is greater than the amount of the largest order in the table.

Approach- Use GROUP BY on snum with SUM on amt to find total amount of orders taken by a salesperson and check with HAVING whether 
this amount is > Maximum amount in the orders table (using a subuery). 

Expected output- names of salespeople with their total amounts.

Tables involved- salespeople, orders

103) Give names and numbers of all salespersons that have more than one customer? 
 approach = first Use Group by on snum and use count
            Now Use this Subquery as temporary table t
            Now join salepeople and table t on t.snum = s.snum AND t.count>1.

Expected output - names and numbers of salespeople having multiple customers.

Tables involved- salespeople, customers 

104) Select all salespeople by name and number who have customers in their city whom they don’t service. 

Approach = Join salespeople and customers Using Inner Join on s.city = c.city AND s.snum != c.snum.

Expected output - names and numbers of salespeople living in same city with some customers but don't service them.

Tables involved- salespeople, customers

105) Does the total amount in orders by customer in Rome and London, exceed the commission paid to salesperson in London, and New York by more than 5 times? 

Approach = Find the total amount of the customers who live in rome and london which is 18995.40.
           Now find the total commision salespeople get who live in london and newyork which is 2073.860400.
           18995.40 > 5 * 2073.860400
           
Expected Output = yes it does,

Tables involved- orders, salespeople

106) Which are the date, order number, amt and city for each salesperson (by name) for the maximum order he has obtained? 

Approach = Join salespeople and orders table Using Inner Join on s.snum = o.snum and Group by sname.
           Now find Max(amt) from the grouped rows .
           
Expected Output- date, order number, amt and city for each salesperson having his maximum order.

Tables involved- orders, salespeople

107) Which salesperson is having lowest commission?

Approach = Join salespeople and orders table using INNER JOIN and Find commission of Every Salepeople

Expected outcome- salesperson having lowest commission

Tables involved- orders, salespeople.

